# KTP Pledge Project
## Contributors
Project Lead: Nicholas Close\
Other Members: Shaela Rhodes, Aaron Duong, Linley Denslow

## Who does this Benefit?
Our group's goal is to be able to provide an educational community service event, and we settled on the idea of hosting a KTP coding camp. The camp’s goal is to provide students of all backgrounds to begin learning some of the basic introductory level concepts about some common coding languages. This will be accomplished through a basic curriculum through a website, as well as offering any additional homework and tutoring help. The event is designed to only be a benefit to both us who are hosting the event, as well as those receiving the service. 

The primary beneficiaries of this project would be students part of the University of Colorado community looking to develop their basic coding skills. Through this event, students will be able to begin learning some of the principal ideas behind four basic languages including Java, Python, R Studio, and C++. By offering hands-on learning and practical applications of coding in various industries, students will see how coding can enhance their academic experience and future career prospects. In addition to learning new skills, students will have access to homework help, which can deepen their understanding and improve their performance in relevant courses.

This project will also directly benefit KTP, with both its presence on campus, as well as relevant experience for members. Hosting the coding camp will increase the fraternity's visibility on campus, as we push to have a more service-oriented organization, committed to fostering growth within the university. Especially as a new group, KTP will be able to establish itself as a positive and impactful contributor to campus life by engaging with students from all disciplines. Not only will the reputation grow, but it will draw in more names and possibly applicants to the fraternity, creating a stronger and more competitive environment. For KTP members, the event will provide opportunities to begin developing experience in teaching, leadership, and communication. Guiding other fellow students through concepts will directly enhance their own understanding of the material, refining their skills in a practical setting. This experience will be an applicable skill to have in a professional setting outside of school, and will both add additional resume boosts as well as actual technical skills needed. 

## Project Overview & Objectives
Many people are intimidated by coding. Coding can be seen as too difficult to pick up because it requires logic, problem-solving, and developing new skills. In addition, the idea of “learning a whole new language” can be daunting, and many people do not have access to learn coding, or simply do not know how or where to start. Our group wishes to change this. Learning coding has many benefits - it increases job opportunities, enhances creativity and collaboration, and allows you a leg-up in such a technology driven world. By creating an event where KTP members can teach the University of Colorado Boulder the basics of coding, we can hopefully build confidence in people and show them the benefits of learning to code.

KTP Coding Camp is a community service event that allows members of the community the opportunity to learn the basics of different coding languages, the benefits of learning coding, get homework help, and learn how knowledge of coding can be applied across a variety of job industries. Not only is this a favorable occasion for KTP to become a prevalent member of the University of Colorado community, but also the chance for students to develop basic coding knowledge that can help them throughout college, and in future jobs. 

KTP Coding Camp will be an event hosted on campus where members of KTP will volunteer to help teach students the basics of a variety of coding languages, as well as information on the practical applications of coding. Any student across campus will have the opportunity to attend this event and learn the basics of coding. Furthermore, this event will also provide homework help to students who need help expanding on what they have already learned. In addition to creating a curriculum, our group also plans to create an encrypted website where attendees can access presentation information and additional resources about what they learned. 

At its roots, KTP Coding Camps has three main objectives. The first objective is to provide a service to the community, and enhance KTP’s presence on campus. As a social organization, it is crucial that KTP has a presence in the community in which it was established. Presenting itself as an organization that wants to provide to students on campus, and use their skills to teach others will not only increase positive sentiment towards KTP, but also establish goodwill on campus. As a part of KTP Coding Camps, the fraternity will also provide homework help to those who need assistance with what they have already learned. 

The second objective of KTP Coding Camps is to provide foundational coding skills. The target audience for this event is all college students on campus, regardless of major, prior experience, or year in school. KTP Coding Camps will provide basic, short, curriculum lessons on four coding languages - Java, Python, R Studio and C++. The lessons for each of these languages will encompass foundational knowledge that will allow participants to feel somewhat comfortable with the basics of these languages, and how each one can be uniquely used in certain situations. 

The third objective of KTP Coding Camps is to create a greater awareness of the practical applications of coding. This will involve a presentation of how coding can be useful in your life, as well as how it can be applied in a variety of different job industries. This will show students that coding can be applicable in many jobs, not just those relating to computer science.

## What does Success Look Like?
The success of this project will be evaluated through several key factors, including class turnout, the quality of the sessions, student feedback from provided forms, and the timely completion of tasks.

For class turnout, as we plan to hold weekly classes, each covering a different programming language over a four week period, our goal is to bring in at least 15-20 students per week who are interested in learning the fundamentals of the featured language.

Regarding the quality of the sessions, we are aiming to produce high quality classes that can possibly be re-ran in the future. This means that our curriculum should be well-structured, engaging, and adaptable. The lessons should offer clear objectives, practical applications, and opportunities for interactive learning. Additionally, we aim to create materials that are easy to update, ensuring that they can be reused in future sessions with minimal adjustments.

I believe that student feedback is another good way to measure our success in this project. At the end of lessons we will have the students fill out a quick form about what they thought of the class, how helpful it was and how much they would recommend it to another student looking to learn basic coding skills in an important language.

Tasks should also be completed in a timely manner throughout the entirety of the project. This means that objectives should be completed by their various due dates, and that if a due date is not met, it should be met as quickly as possible.

If all of these key factors come to fruition then we would declare this project a success. However, as class turnout can be unpredictable, although we hope for at least 15-20 students a week, if this doesn’t come to fruition but everything else does then we believe we can still consider the project mostly a success and that the way it is advertised should be remodeled.
